Welcome! In this video we are going to be getting our Gimbal to actually
update, so that we can look around and actually see
the world through non-tilted glasses. And to do this,
we are going to be learning a little bit about Global versus Local Rotation,
as well as getting access to components in
our child objects. See you in the lecture!
So in order to be able to change the Transform
or the rotation of both this Player, parent,
and this Main Camera, child,
we're going to need to be able to get hold of a reference
to both of these. We need to get hold of the Transform
of each of these. Now when
we have the script directly on the Camera and the Camera's Transform was over there
trying to access. Just a quick recap of how we got hold of that!
If we go and look at our CameraRotation script, you'll see that we
just used transform.rotation and that was enough.
Now, the
fortunate thing is that we can get hold of the
child object fairly easily in Unity. It's hard
to get hold of parents, but getting hold of child objects is very straight forward. So
what that means is, we need to move our CameraRotation script
from being on our Camera, which is the child, to being on the parent so that it can
easily access both the parent and the child. So to do that
we scroll down in the Inspector to our CameraRotation script, and
we click on the cog on the right-hand side, and hit Remove
Component. OK, and then we go into Assets and
Scripts and then choose our CameraRotation script and drag it
onto the Player, so it's on the parent now.
Now let's go into our script and see what is going to
happen here! I'm going to remove entirely...
Well actually, I'll leave the code here, but just to show you,
we are going to have to get hold of our different transforms .
We will do a print() in here. So
first off, I am going to print the ("Parent transform")
and I'm going to do this on a new line. I'm going to do a print
just simply the (transform), so that should
get hold of our parent. Then, I'm going to print the
("Camera transform") and show you
how we get hold of our camera transform. So the camera transform
is done by doing Camera camera =
to, and we then do, it's very similar to the GetComponent but GetComponent
only does a GetComponent on the current object. What we actually want
is GetComponentInChildren, because that will get hold of
the Camera component in any of our children,
any of the children of this game object. So
then, we can do a print, and funnily enough it's (camera.transform)
is what we're looking for. That gets us the field
that is a member of the camera component, which is the transform on
that game object. So let's just go ahead and play this
to make sure we're understanding everything correctly.
Now, I'm going to Minimize by right-clicking on
a tab and unchecking the Maximize. That
means I can then go to the Console and I can see that we've
got Parent transform is Player Transform, and Camera
transform is Main Camera Transform. So we are definitely getting hold
of the correct transforms, by using these
two methods I've shown you in the Start () method here.
So time for a challenge! I would like you to have a go at
updating the rotations, and by that I mean the rotation of both
of the transforms. So you'll need to split your rotation update into
two Quaternions, one for going in the X direction, one for
going in the Y direction. Then, I'd like you apply one
of these Quaternions to our transform.rotation.
So that's the parent transform. Then, the other one I want you to apply
to camera.transform.rotation, so the child's rotation.
And then, what do you expect the behavior to be?
And is that what you get? Do you get the expected behavior?
If not, what if
you use transform.localRotation for both? Does that then
get you the expected behavior? And
can you explain why these two might give different results? Just have a go in
the discussions, see if you can have a go. It doesn't matter if you get it
wrong. The important thing is just to have a go and it really cements these
concepts in your head, when they finally do get explained and everything settles in place. OK
so pause the video and have a go at this challenge!
OK welcome back! We are going to attempt this
challenge now, in this video! So the first
thing I said was to split this Quaternion. So what I'm actually going to
do is I'm going to take this camera code and stick it
down here in the Update (), because I'm going to need to get hold of the camera.transform
.rotation. So let's have a go at that! camera
.transform.rotation. You can see it's completing with me, which is very
very helpful. And then, I'm going to copy this Quaternion over
but, as I said, I want to split.
So if you remember, I want the child to rotate with the
Y, so that means I'm going to set the mouseX to 0.
And I want the body, the parent, to
rotate with the X, so I'm going to set the mouseY to 0.
So that's effectively split our rotation into two different Quaternions.
And then, here I'm going to multiply by, you guessed
it, camera.transform.rotation. Make sure it's not transform.rotation
or it will be constantly trying to reset the rotation and that won't look good
at all. But if we do it like this, that's
the behavior we would like. I can remove these prints now, because we need
to make sure we always cleanup after ourselves, when we've done some debugging
information like that. Now, if we go back to Unity
and pause and play and see if
there's now the expected behavior. So I turn... Ooh, I'm still getting my tilting,
so what is happening there? Well I suggested
that you try replacing rotation with local
rotation. Now, because it's in a couple of places, I'm going to teach you a
quick shortcut. What we want to do is Command and F.
In fact, we want to do Command and H in VisualStudio,
and that's going to get us a replacement. So I'm going to
make sure it's matching case, otherwise, you saw it was
highlighting CameraRotation which is not what I wanted to replace.
And then, I'm going to replace
some of these instances, not all of them, just these ones. So maybe I'll search for a
.rotate, and I'm going to replace .rotate with
.localRotation. Make sure I get my capital
letters right. It's very important, because capital letters
do matter, it is case sensitive. And I should be
able to just do a replace, perhaps by hitting Enter.
OK, I think I'll have to do that multiple times.
There we go, and we have sorted that out!
Now I'll hit save on this file, go back into Unity,
and hit play! Let's see if
we're now getting the behavior we want. Yes perfect!
This is exactly what we want it to do, no more of this funny tilting business!
So what was going on there, between the local and
global rotation, was that in the global rotation,
it's saying once I've applied the parent's rotation, what
is the rotation of the Main Camera. So we can actually see
this by toggling this Global and Local button,
in our Editor, in the top to the left of the play buttons.
So what we see here is, if I rotate my
Player, all the way around like this, then I look at the Main Camera.
I have two options, I can see the Global rotation which sets up
my axes looking like this, or if I've toggled
to the Local rotation, you see now my axis is in the right place for rotating.
Because otherwise, if I was in the Global rotation, then
doing this rotation essentially tilts, which is the exact behavior
we were actually seeing it doing. So we always want to be operating on these
local rotations, when we're talking about our Gimbal. So
congratulations, you have successfully got our Gimbal working!
I'm just going to undo these rotations to put it back to how it should be.
And I'll see you in the next video!